docs/services/frontend.md, before:

# Frontend

The frontend is responsible to provide a UI for users, as well
as an API leveraged by the UI or other clients. The application is based on
[Next.JS](https://nextjs.org/) to provide a React web-based UI and API routes.

[Frontend source](../../src/frontend/)

## Server Instrumentation

It is recommended to use a Node required module when starting your NodeJS
application to initialize the SDK and auto-instrumentation. When initializing
the OpenTelemetry NodeJS SDK, you optionally specify which auto-instrumentation
libraries to leverage, or make use of the `getNodeAutoInstrumentations()`
function which includes most popular frameworks. The `utils/telemetry/Instrumentation.js`
file contains all code required to initialize the SDK and auto-instrumentation
based on standard [OpenTelemetry environment variables](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md)
for OTLP export, resource attributes, and service name.

```javascript
const opentelemetry = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-node")
const { getNodeAutoInstrumentations } = require("@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node")
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc')
const { alibabaCloudEcsDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-alibaba-cloud')
const { awsEc2Detector, awsEksDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-aws')
const { containerDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-container')
const { gcpDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-gcp')
const { envDetector, hostDetector, osDetector, processDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resources')

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
  traceExporter: new OTLPTraceExporter(),
  instrumentations: [ getNodeAutoInstrumentations() ],
  resourceDetectors: [
    containerDetector,
    envDetector,
    hostDetector,
    osDetector,
    processDetector,
    alibabaCloudEcsDetector,
    awsEksDetector,
    awsEc2Detector,
    gcpDetector
  ]
})

sdk.start()
```

Node required modules are loaded using the `--require` command line argument.
This can be done in the `scripts.start` section of `package.json` and starting
the application using `npm start`.

```json
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node --require ./Instrumentation.js server.js",
  },
```

## Traces

### Span Exceptions and status

You can use the span object's `recordException` function to create a span event
with the full stack trace of a handled error. When recording an exception also
be sure to set the span's status accordingly. You can see this in the catch
block of the `NextApiHandler` function in the `utils/telemetry/InstrumentationMiddleware.ts`
file.

```typescript
    span.recordException(error as Exception);
    span.setStatus({code: SpanStatusCode.ERROR});
```

### Create new spans

New spans can be created and started using `Tracer.startSpan("spanName", options)`.
Several options can be used to specify how the span can be created.

- `root: true` will create a new trace, setting this span as the root.
- `links` are used to specify links to other spans (even within another trace)
that should be referenced.
- `attributes` are key/value pairs added to a span, typically used for
application context.

```typescript
    span = tracer.startSpan(`HTTP ${method}`, {
        root: true,
        kind: SpanKind.SERVER,
        links: [{context: syntheticSpan.spanContext()}],
        attributes: {
            "app.synthetic_request": true,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_TARGET]: target,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_STATUS_CODE]: response.statusCode,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_METHOD]: method,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_USER_AGENT]: headers['user-agent'] || '',
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_URL]: `${headers.host}${url}`,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_FLAVOR]: httpVersion,
        }
    });
```

## Browser Instrumentation

The web-based UI that the frontend provides is also instrumented for web
browsers. OpenTelemetry instrumentation is included as part of the Next.js App
component in `pages/_app.tsx`. Here instrumentation is imported and
initialized.

```typescript
import FrontendTracer from '../utils/telemetry/FrontendTracer';

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') FrontendTracer();
```

The `utils/telemetry/FrontendTracer.ts` file contains code to intialize a
TracerProvider, establish an OTLP export, register trace context propagators,
and register web specific auto-instrumentation libraries. Since the browser
will send data to an OpenTelemetry collector that will likely be on a separate
domain, CORS headers are also setup accordingly.

```typescript
import { CompositePropagator, W3CBaggagePropagator, W3CTraceContextPropagator } from '@opentelemetry/core';
import { WebTracerProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-web';
import { SimpleSpanProcessor } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base';
import { registerInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';
import { getWebAutoInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-web';
import { Resource } from '@opentelemetry/resources';
import { SemanticResourceAttributes } from '@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions';
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http';

const FrontendTracer = async () => {
  const { ZoneContextManager } = await import('@opentelemetry/context-zone');

  const provider = new WebTracerProvider({
    resource: new Resource({
      [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_OTEL_SERVICE_NAME,
    }),
  });

  provider.addSpanProcessor(new SimpleSpanProcessor(new OTLPTraceExporter()));

  const contextManager = new ZoneContextManager();

  provider.register({
    contextManager,
    propagator: new CompositePropagator({
      propagators: [new W3CBaggagePropagator(), new W3CTraceContextPropagator()],
    }),
  });

  registerInstrumentations({
    tracerProvider: provider,
    instrumentations: [
      getWebAutoInstrumentations({
        '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-fetch': {
          propagateTraceHeaderCorsUrls: /.*/,
          clearTimingResources: true,
        },
      }),
    ],
  });
};

export default FrontendTracer;
```

## Metrics

TBD

## Logs

TBD

## Baggage

OpenTelemetry Baggage is leveraged in the frontend to check if the request is
synthetic (from the load generator). Synthetic requests will force the creation
of a new trace. The root span from the new trace will contain many of the same
attributes as an HTTP request instrumented span.

To determine if a Baggage item is set, you can leverage the `propagation` API
to parse the Baggage header, and leverage the `baggage` API to get or
set entries.

```typescript
    const baggage = propagation.getBaggage(context.active());
    if (baggage?.getEntry("synthetic_request")?.value == "true") {...}
```

Commit message:

feature(frontend): adding synthetic attribute flag to FE instrumentation (#631)
* feature(frontend): adding synthetic attribute flag to FE instrumentation

* feature(frontend): adding frontend documentation

docs/services/frontend.md, after:

# Frontend

The frontend is responsible to provide a UI for users, as well
as an API leveraged by the UI or other clients. The application is based on
[Next.JS](https://nextjs.org/) to provide a React web-based UI and API routes.

[Frontend source](../../src/frontend/)

## Server Instrumentation

It is recommended to use a Node required module when starting your NodeJS
application to initialize the SDK and auto-instrumentation. When initializing
the OpenTelemetry NodeJS SDK, you optionally specify which auto-instrumentation
libraries to leverage, or make use of the `getNodeAutoInstrumentations()`
function which includes most popular frameworks. The `utils/telemetry/Instrumentation.js`
file contains all code required to initialize the SDK and auto-instrumentation
based on standard [OpenTelemetry environment variables](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md)
for OTLP export, resource attributes, and service name.

```javascript
const opentelemetry = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-node")
const { getNodeAutoInstrumentations } = require("@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node")
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc')
const { alibabaCloudEcsDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-alibaba-cloud')
const { awsEc2Detector, awsEksDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-aws')
const { containerDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-container')
const { gcpDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resource-detector-gcp')
const { envDetector, hostDetector, osDetector, processDetector } = require('@opentelemetry/resources')

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
  traceExporter: new OTLPTraceExporter(),
  instrumentations: [ getNodeAutoInstrumentations() ],
  resourceDetectors: [
    containerDetector,
    envDetector,
    hostDetector,
    osDetector,
    processDetector,
    alibabaCloudEcsDetector,
    awsEksDetector,
    awsEc2Detector,
    gcpDetector
  ]
})

sdk.start()
```

Node required modules are loaded using the `--require` command line argument.
This can be done in the `scripts.start` section of `package.json` and starting
the application using `npm start`.

```json
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node --require ./Instrumentation.js server.js",
  },
```

## Traces

### Span Exceptions and status

You can use the span object's `recordException` function to create a span event
with the full stack trace of a handled error. When recording an exception also
be sure to set the span's status accordingly. You can see this in the catch
block of the `NextApiHandler` function in the `utils/telemetry/InstrumentationMiddleware.ts`
file.

```typescript
    span.recordException(error as Exception);
    span.setStatus({code: SpanStatusCode.ERROR});
```

### Create new spans

New spans can be created and started using `Tracer.startSpan("spanName", options)`.
Several options can be used to specify how the span can be created.

- `root: true` will create a new trace, setting this span as the root.
- `links` are used to specify links to other spans (even within another trace)
that should be referenced.
- `attributes` are key/value pairs added to a span, typically used for
application context.

```typescript
    span = tracer.startSpan(`HTTP ${method}`, {
        root: true,
        kind: SpanKind.SERVER,
        links: [{context: syntheticSpan.spanContext()}],
        attributes: {
            "app.synthetic_request": true,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_TARGET]: target,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_STATUS_CODE]: response.statusCode,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_METHOD]: method,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_USER_AGENT]: headers['user-agent'] || '',
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_URL]: `${headers.host}${url}`,
            [SemanticAttributes.HTTP_FLAVOR]: httpVersion,
        }
    });
```

## Browser Instrumentation

The web-based UI that the frontend provides is also instrumented for web
browsers. OpenTelemetry instrumentation is included as part of the Next.js App
component in `pages/_app.tsx`. Here instrumentation is imported and
initialized.

```typescript
import FrontendTracer from '../utils/telemetry/FrontendTracer';

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') FrontendTracer();
```

The `utils/telemetry/FrontendTracer.ts` file contains code to intialize a
TracerProvider, establish an OTLP export, register trace context propagators,
and register web specific auto-instrumentation libraries. Since the browser
will send data to an OpenTelemetry collector that will likely be on a separate
domain, CORS headers are also setup accordingly.

As part of the changes to carry over the `synthetic_request` attribute flag for
the backend services, the `applyCustomAttributesOnSpan` configuration function
has been added to the `instrumentation-fetch` library custom span attributes logic
that way every browser-side span will include it.

```typescript
import { CompositePropagator, W3CBaggagePropagator, W3CTraceContextPropagator } from '@opentelemetry/core';
import { WebTracerProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-web';
import { SimpleSpanProcessor } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base';
import { registerInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';
import { getWebAutoInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-web';
import { Resource } from '@opentelemetry/resources';
import { SemanticResourceAttributes } from '@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions';
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http';

const FrontendTracer = async () => {
  const { ZoneContextManager } = await import('@opentelemetry/context-zone');

  const provider = new WebTracerProvider({
    resource: new Resource({
      [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_OTEL_SERVICE_NAME,
    }),
  });

  provider.addSpanProcessor(new SimpleSpanProcessor(new OTLPTraceExporter()));

  const contextManager = new ZoneContextManager();

  provider.register({
    contextManager,
    propagator: new CompositePropagator({
      propagators: [new W3CBaggagePropagator(), new W3CTraceContextPropagator()],
    }),
  });

  registerInstrumentations({
    tracerProvider: provider,
    instrumentations: [
      getWebAutoInstrumentations({
        '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-fetch': {
          propagateTraceHeaderCorsUrls: /.*/,
          clearTimingResources: true,
          applyCustomAttributesOnSpan(span) {
             span.setAttribute('app.synthetic_request', 'false');
          },
        },
      }),
    ],
  });
};

export default FrontendTracer;
```

## Metrics

TBD

## Logs

TBD

## Baggage

OpenTelemetry Baggage is leveraged in the frontend to check if the request is
synthetic (from the load generator). Synthetic requests will force the creation
of a new trace. The root span from the new trace will contain many of the same
attributes as an HTTP request instrumented span.

To determine if a Baggage item is set, you can leverage the `propagation` API
to parse the Baggage header, and leverage the `baggage` API to get or
set entries.

```typescript
    const baggage = propagation.getBaggage(context.active());
    if (baggage?.getEntry("synthetic_request")?.value == "true") {...}
```
